Man, it's crazy how we played more than 60 sets and only won three.
Manabu! Come on, drink up.
We've walked quite a difficult road.
No, thanks. If I drink any more, I'll definitely feel it tomorrow.
That's for sure.
It won't affect us!
Though if they played like they did in the Seijou match,
we could've won a few more sets.
Manabu, are you saying you're too good for my sake?
The team's offense was focused around Hinata and Kageyama's deviant fast attack and their bait routine,
No, um...
I'm just kidding!
and they executed it well.
But the limits of that strategy were in sight.
And they hit that limit when they lost to Seijou.
That's why they started changing things up.
I know.
Right now, they're each making their own gear.
It's still a work in progress, and they stand no
chance against a powerhouse team from Kanto.
But if those gears all line up...
Hey! Don't think that you'll win against Nekoma that easily!
Easily? I would never think that!
But we'll be eagerly looking for the chance to win!
You sure talk big now, Takeda.
You too, Ukai!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
This is the final set.
We've been losing this entire training camp.
Let's try to rip at least one set away from the most powerful team at this training camp, Fukurodani,
before going home!
Yeah!
I'll show you the results of this training camp!
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Episode Ten:
Gears
Karasuno               Fukurodani
Let's have a good match!
Let's start off strong!
Yeah!
All right! Bring it, Karasuno!
Give us a good serve, Asahi!
It's a bit off!
Bokuto!
Right!
Left! Number four!
Tighten up for the straight spike.
It'll get through if there's even the tiniest gap.
It's out!
Yes!
Damn, it went out of bounds.
So close!
Don't worry about it, Tsukishima! You almost had it!
It really pisses me off how you
guys keep improving day by day.
Right.
Left, left!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
Whoa, he got it!
But it's way off course!
A fast attack from there?!
Even if the receive is a little off,
they confidently pull off a fast attack.
Their setter's pretty skilled too.
Give us a good serve.
Stop them here!
Their number four is up front now.
Now I can finally hit up front.
Give us a good one!
Nishinoya!
Nice receive!
Nice, Saru!
Let me finish it off!
Our current rotation has the tallest wall of blocks in the front row.
Make sure you stop the ball!
That's an insane cut shot.
A strong hit that cuts in front of three blockers is very difficult to execute.
It can be hard on your shoulders if they're not flexible.
All right!
Did you see that, Akaashi?
Hey, did you see my awesome cut shot just now?
I did. It was amazing.
It was pure luck, though!
Bokuto is so annoying.
That's amazing, even if it was luck.
I'd love to hit a spike like that.
Bokuto from Fukurodani is a truly strange player.
Hey, can I try hitting that again?
Even when he's your opponent,
you kind of want to cheer for him.
I wanna do it again!
The other team's completely on to you, Bokuto.
Though I think that might be because he's on a completely different level.
Oh crap! My bad.
Maybe I'll go for a straight spike, then.
Yeah...
He might just be a player who lifts the spirits of both his teammates and his opponents.
Karasuno               Fukurodani
Yeah!
Give us a good serve, Tsukishima!
A special attack?!
Yep!
Listen closely. This attack is best described as something born from upsetting the balance of stillness and motion.
Whoa! Whoa...
There he goes, trying to sound all cool again.
Do you have any clue what he's talking about?
I have an idea.
This attack isn't something you
use to run away from the enemy.
With perfect timing, a perfect set, a perfect position for spiking...
Just when everyone thinks a powerful spike is incoming...
And more than anything, the moment when you think
you can land a powerful shot is the perfect opportunity!
I got this!
Nice receive!
Like you're laughing at them, really go for it!
Hinata just...
tipped it over!
When the tip succeeds, there's a great feeling
that's totally different than when you land a spike.
You know how a few people will dive for the falling ball?
Yeah.
You're usually eye level with them or higher, but when they try to reach for the ball, miss, and then look up...
It's the best feeling.
A tip?!
You're the one who taught it to him.
You actually used your head?
You're gonna get a fever.
You're the only one who doesn't get to say stuff like that to me.
Hmph!
I won't let them score another point!
I think it's impossible to completely shut them out.
Back me up once in a while, Akaashi!
Damn you, Shorty!
We're not gonna lose!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
Number two!
All right!
Ready, and...
They all seem to be enjoying themselves.
I touched it!
Got it!
I wonder if Bokuto has something to do with it.
Wow, a setter dump!
Kageyama is doing well too!
His jump serves have been on point.
Yeah, he's really calm and collected today.
It's scary like the calm before the storm.
Give us another good serve, Tsukishima!
I feel like everything I ate this morning is gone from my stomach, yet I'm still not hungry.
My body's more responsive than usual,
and I can clearly see what everyone else is doing.
Even I can tell I'm playing well today.
All right!
The same goes for everyone else.
Nice, Daichi!
Is it because of the barbecue?
Hinata's doing well too.
He's making no unnecessary movements.
We just might
be able to do the new fast attack.
But...
Nice receive, Asahi!
Is he planning on doing the new fast attack?
If we mess it up, we could destroy the good mood the team has developed.
We should hold off until the chance of success is higher.
You're not gonna do it?
The ball comes...
and then...
it stops.
Wait! What the hell was that?!
If we're gonna do that, tell me beforehand!
I just felt like we could pull it off! Didn't you feel it too?!
I did, but it was too sudden!
What the hell? Is that weird fast attack back?
Not quite.
I've gotta mentally prepare and stuff!
That was different from the fast attack they did before.
It's fine since we totally nailed it, right?!
Wrong!
C'mon! Let's do it again!
The first gear
is in place.
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
The ball comes...
and then...
it stops.
Karasuno                    Fukurodani
All right!
What the heck was that?! It was awesome!
Nice job, Hinata, Kageyama!
Hey, Akaashi. Was it really that amazing?
Could we do it too?
That's something we should never try.
Hinata hit it like it was nothing,
but I think that set is really hard to hit unless you're used to it.
Not to mention,
making a set float at the point of
impact is incredible. I couldn't do it.
You're not gonna do it?
He dragged me along again. Dammit.
What? You wanna start somethin'?
That was awesome! So cool!
It stopped right before my eyes!
It was like, "shoop"!
I was totally sure it was gonna finally work!
But when it actually stopped in front of my eyes, it freaked me out!
You really are amazing!
Wh-What're you saying, you moron...
Amazing! You're so amazing!
The look on Kageyama's face defies description.
You're so awesome, Kageyama!
What's up with his facial muscles?
It's not often that Hinata praises Kageyama in a straightforward manner.
I'm glad we actually believed in this and waited.
Yeah.
Anyway, next time, make sure you—
You did it!
You did it! You did it!
Nice spike, Hinata, Kageyama!
They finally succeeded after three weeks.
Ever since that fight, Hinata and Kageyama haven't been on speaking terms.
Yet they both worked hard on improving.
And now...
the deviant duo is back in action!
One more time!
I'm so jealous!
Let me look cool too!
We can't let them beat us.
Let's keep it up!
Hey, hey, hey!
Don't get cocky, you guys!
All right!
Shouyou...
always does something new.
If Shorty was on our team,
would you be a little more motivated?
It'd be impossible to be on the same team as him.
Huh? Why?
I wouldn't be able to keep up with him
unless I kept coming up with something new.
No matter how cleverly I ditched practice, I'm pretty sure he'd notice.
That first-year setter prodigy hesitated for just a second and Shouyou figured it out.
That'd be exhausting.
I see.
Then would you be properly motivated
if he was your opponent during practice?
What do you mean?
Because when you watch him play,
your face looks like it does after you buy a new game.
No, it doesn't.
Actually, what does that face even look like?
Really excited.
What the heck? I don't know what you're talking about.
I don't make that face.
You do.
I do not.
U-Um, Ukai?
To be honest, at first glance, I can't tell the difference between that and the old deviant fast attack.
Oh.
In the previous fast attack, the set would
go right through Hinata's point of impact.
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Point of
Impact
Conversely, with this new fast attack,
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Point of
Impact
they're trying to make it so that the spiker's highest point of impact is in the same place as the ball's point of arrival.
Once the ball's forward momentum dies,
there's a brief moment that you wouldn't
have if the ball was going straight through.
That one moment existing is the difference.
It means Hinata has more options while mid-air.
Oh!
I gotta bring the old man to the spring tourney prelims.
I'll show him their fast attack up close!
Nice receive!
Kill the ball's momentum.
Kill it!
Shit! And everything looked the same as last time too!
All right!
Oh my.
We got lucky!
Did he lose his incredible concentration from earlier?
Shake it off, Kageyama!
That really pisses me off!
Why's that? Besides, what else was I supposed to say?!
Well, it's not something you can always expect to go perfectly...
And what better time...
...for the upperclassmen to shine!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
One blocker!
I touched it!
Got it!
There's that weird sound again!
But a double hit wasn't called.
The libero's set...
leads to the ace's back row attack!
The second gear
is in place!
It's out?!
That was so close!
Sorry, my set was a bit low! Damn it!
I-It was great!
I think that was more a mistake on my end.
Please say it sucks if it sucks!
Oh, okay...
I-I'd be so happy if the set was a bit higher.
They changed this much in a week?
I know that!
Terrifying.
That's it! Keep it up!
We still lack the experience to be able to go head-to-head with a powerhouse school while they're on guard.
Got it!
Left! Left!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
Two blockers!
In order for us to win,
We have a chance here!
even if we suck...
We can score!
Got it!
...all we should do is hone our new weapons!
Now!
Multiple spikers almost simultaneously
make their approach from several directions!
A synchronized attack at first tempo!
The blockers can't narrow in on a target!
Everyone dives in, believing that the set will come to them!
All right!
I nail spike... Seriously feel good...
He's crying.
All right!
He's babbling.
I mean, it's been a while since nailing a spike has felt this satisfying.
Dammit, they're attacking from every which way...
Nice set, Kageyama!
Thank you!
Nice spike, Tanaka!
Thanks!
Keep coming up with something new, huh?
Stay focused!
The third gear
is in place!
That was a synchronized attack at first tempo.
It went so smoothly!
Yeah.
Against their three blockers, our attack had four people advancing at once if you include the back row attack.
They couldn't follow all of them.
Is something wrong?
No.
There's just something I want to try out now.
Damn it!
Yes!
Karasuno's at the top of their game.
The messy attacks they were trying
on the first day are finally succeeding.
All right!
Karasuno               Fukurodani
This is going great.
We're actually neck-and-neck with
Fukurodani at the end of the match.
Yeah!
Don't get overconfident.
The real battle begins now.
Yes, sir!
It's true that you shouldn't let your guard down.
But it's also true that the gears you guys have
created are starting to mesh with one another.
In the course of fighting out this set,
please work on honing them even further!
Yessir!
Also, our plan of not letting their ace have free reign is going well.
Well, except for that ridiculous cut shot.
But that was because Tsukishima got a hand on a spike earlier.
Oh, right.
If we can keep number four under control,
then victory is in sight.
Let's finish this!
Yessir!
We're having a difficult time, but let's stay calm. We can't let Karasuno's attacks faze us.
Yeah!
Right.
Were you listening, Bokuto?
Yeah, of course I was listening!
C'mon, let's do this already.
Do you think that's...
Karasuno                 Fukurodani
All right!
Damn it! I'm sorry!
That was our chance to turn things around too!
Don't worry about it!
Nice try, Noya!
All right, I'll leave them in the shadows with my serve!
Give us a good one, Bokuto!
Bokuto, stay calm.
I am calm!
This isn't good. He's losing his temper.
All right! Here I go!
Damn it! I'm sorry!
Just calm down.
Don't worry about it.
I'm sorry!
Karasuno                 Fukurodani
Hey, Karasuno caught up with them again.
Yeah.
Are they actually gonna turn the tables at the eleventh hour?
Their number four can spike from any point on the court.
Let's aim for him with our serves to restrict his movement a little.
Got it.
Crap! I aimed for the corner too hard!
You jerk!
Whoa, it barely made it in. I'm so lucky!
Give it to me!
I'll finish this in one hit!
There are few outcomes when setting to Bokuto while he's a bit angry.
Seconds
A: If he scores normally, then there's no problem.
All right!
B: If he messes up or gets blocked again, he may start to feel even worse.
C: If I don't give him the ball...
Hmph! I don't care anymore!
...he may become uncooperative.
C is the most annoying.
Bokuto!
Three blockers!
All right!
Got it!
Give it to me again, Akaashi!
Here.
All right!
Let's stop him this time!
Ready, and...
All right!
Karasuno                 Fukurodani
Wow, Karasuno turned it around!
Isn't this the first time they've been in the lead all week?
I think you're right!
W-Was that a block?
No. It didn't go over the net, so it was a failed spike.
Does this mean what I think it means?
Oh boy. It's happening, isn't it?
Really? This quickly?
Wow, already?
That was fast.
Jeez, here it comes.
Akaashi...
Don't set for me anymore today!
There it is. Bokuto's depressed mode.
What the...
Okay.
Huh?
But in exchange, please calm down.
Could this be our chance?
Yeah, we can take this set!
I don't know what's going on,
but their ace doesn't seem to be doing well!
Let's keep it up!
Yeah!
Hinata, we're gonna use that fast attack again.
I'll give you the set you want, so have faith in me and jump.
Okay!
We're going to take our new weapons
and defeat Fukurodani!
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
It looks like we can finally win against Fukurodani!
Their ace was saying stuff like, "Don't set for me anymore!"
Do you think the winner gets to eat more meat?
Wait, won't that mean we get to eat less if we lose?!
We're absolutely gonna win this!
Episode Eleven:
"Up Above"
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"'Up Above.'"